Klappentext:

The contributions to this volume investigate relations of cohesion and coherence as well as instantiations of discourse phenomena and their interaction with information structure in multilingual contexts. Some contributions concentrate on procedures to analyze cohesion and coherence from a corpus-linguistic perspective. Others have a particular focus on textual cohesion in parallel corpora that include both originals and translated texts. Additionally, the papers in the volume discuss the nature of cohesion and coherence with implications for human and machine translation.
The contributors are experts on discourse phenomena and textuality who address these issues from an empirical perspective. The chapters in this volume are grounded in the latest research making this book useful to both experts of discourse studies and computational linguistics, as well as advanced students with an interest in these disciplines. All contributions have undergone a rigorous double blind peer reviewing process, each being assessed by two external reviewers.
We hope that this volume will serve as a catalyst to other researchers and will facilitate further advances in the development of cost-effective annotation procedures, the application of statistical techniques for the analysis of linguistic phenomena and the elaboration of new methods for data interpretation in multilingual corpus linguistics and machine translation.


BioSketches:

Katrin Menzel studied Conference Interpreting and Translation Studies at Saarland University. Her PhD thesis focused on German-English contrasts in textual cohesion. She is working as a lecturer and post-doctoral researcher at the Department of Language Science and Technology at Saarland University. She is also involved in a collaborative research center ("SFB") on Information Density and Linguistic Encoding where she investigates the evolution of scientific English articles from the 17th century to the present day.

Ekaterina Lapshinova-Koltunski is a post-doctoral researcher and lecturer at the Department of Language Science and Technology at Saarland University. She completed her PhD on semi-automatic extraction and classification of language data at the IMS in Stuttgart and her habilitation on inter- and intralingual variation in multilingual contexts at Saarland University.

Kerstin Kunz is a professor for English translation studies at the Institute for Translation and Interpreting at Heidelberg University. She applies qualitative and empirical methodologies in teaching and research to study language contrast, register variation and translation strategies on the level of lexicogrammar and discourse.